# med-abbrev-mystery

Electronic Health Records (EHRs) are a critical data source for Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications in healthcare. Despite their utility, the widespread use of abbreviations in EHRs can lead to misinterpretations and re- duced clarity, posing challenges for clinical de- cision making. This study aims to improve the interpretation of medical abbreviations in clini- cal texts by fine-tuning Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) models using the Medical Dataset for Abbre- viation Disambiguation for Natural Language Understanding (MeDAL), crafted by Wen et al. (2020) containing 5,886 abbreviations with ap- proximately 4 expansions on average for each. The abbreviations come from 14,393,619 medi- cal abstracts on PubMed. The fine-tuned BERT models were applied to two medical tasks: mor- tality prediction and diagnosis prediction. We hypothesize that fine-tuning on medical abbre- viations will enhance the models’ ability to pro- cess clinical text and improve task performance, and that performance improvements can be ob- tained by fine-tuning Large Language Models (LLMs) on the abbreviation disambiguation task. Results were mixed with some indication that fine-tuning BERT models on abbreviation disambiguation does offer modest performance improvements on downstream mortality and diagnosis prediction tasks in line with those ob- served in Wen et al. (2020) but we ultimately conclude that there is more exploration which can be done in fine-tuning BERT models on medical abbreviations to improve downstream task performance.

Check out 266_Final_Paper.pdf for a paper describing our work and accomplishments.
